# I18n / L10n

Unless you have to deal with 10+ different languages don't use any I18n library.<br/>
They'll bring you more pain than gain. There are many decent of them.<br/>
jQuery [Globalize](https://github.com/jquery/globalize) has a nice support. Don't use it, though. Here is why.

### Not flexible enough

Such libs are never flexible enough. All of them will have something like `long`, `middle` and `short` date formats
and be sure the format you'll need won't be there. There are *tons* of date-time representations in most cultures.
Tons of other cultural, regional or audience-specific stuff which will influence your desired output.

To account every of them you'll need to build Wikipidea, not a product with measurable API.
The "minor quirks" and "sacrifices" will irritate you increasingly, once you start the "perfectionist" road.
Costly solutions with low rewards tend to feel this way.

Even if one seems to have what you need – it probably wraps *the wrong* library.
It wraps [MomentJS](http://momentjs.com/) while you'd love to use [Date-Fns](date-fns.org).
So you either sacrifice you preferences or bundle both... Auch!

### Too heavy

Such libs are very heavy. Even when you disable all the "cultures" you don't need, the machinery is there.
I never met a popular I18n library (in any ecosystem) (and I've seen many) that wouldn't be bloated as hell.
I always felt like I was using only 1% to 10% of what they provided and paid for the 100%.
Your bundle will probably increase significantly with any I18n solution.

### Blurry

The truth is – you can't draw a line between I18n and non-I18n stuff. It's very possible that gradually
your whole app will start to leak under control of I18n provider. Because *everything is ~~racist~~ cultural*.
You will bundle with a special I18n-Webpack fork, you will run scripts with a special I18n-Node,
you will use a special I18n-Calculus to sum two freaking numbers because of culture-specific
(and *very important*!) rules of rounding...

### Unnecessary

You don't need them. There are specific libraries for any aspect I18n solutions so like to absorb.
Date formatting – use date library. Money formatting – use financial library. You've got the idea.
Take my word – any I18n library you choose will have a broken or missing API for at least one "marginal" thing
(you'll desperately need). While a specialized library will do everything fine.

My rule of thumb is to avoid a wrapper unless it adds something significant.
I18n wrappers do not. The truth is – they are just kitchen-sinks of "everything about localization".
Libraries without a well defined purposes and limitations.

## Alternatives

As soon as you start to manually implement missing pieces – you'll have the layout, the code, and the opportunity
to ditch the vendor completely. Just do it.

Some tips for companies which don't have unlimited budgets for I18 "problems" and "experts" but aim
aiming for international market (which is a rare thing t.b.h).

* Use numbers instead of words.
* Use icons instead of words.
* Enforce `xxxx-xx-xx` date format and other universally understandable stuff.
* Keep courage to ignore "purists". Such people will complain anyway.
* Keep translations in database.
* Check how [Alibaba](https://www.alibaba.com/) works. It seems that people can not only
  communicate but even run successfull businesses having A0 or lower English.
